Add 5.18 release notes (#2205)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.18/release-notes.md

---

## 5.18.0 release notes

**February 24, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.18.0, is now available for download.
**PLACEHOLDER FOR RELEASE SUMMARY**

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.18.0.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- The `event.entity.entity_class` value now defaults to `proxy` for [`POST /events`][114] requests.

> - Proxy entities are now automatically created when events are published with an entity that does not exist.

Reviewer: Maybe we should specify that this is for the backend `/events` API?

> - Proxy entities are now automatically created when events are published with an entity that does not exist.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you use the [events API][118] to create a new event with an entity that does not already exist, the sensu-backend will automatically create a proxy entity when the event is published.
```

> - Supported Bonsai asset versions are now prefixed with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).

Reviewer: Actually sensuctl now *also* accept Bonsai asset versions prefixed with `v`; most Bonsai assets will continue to use the non-prefixed version.

Author: Is my suggestion below correct?

> - Supported Bonsai asset versions are now prefixed with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).

Author: ```suggestion
- Sensuctl now accepts Bonsai asset versions that include a prefix with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).
```

Reviewer: What do you mean by `supported Bonsai asset versions`?

Author: I think I was misunderstanding the changelog item (Support Bonsai assets versions prefixed with the letter v) -- I thought support meant the v designated a specific supported asset rather than "Sensu now supports..." I get it now, thank you. I will fix it.

> - The version API now retrieves the Sensu agent version for the Sensu instance.

Reviewer: Just to make sure it's clear to everyone, this new version API was added to sensu-agent (`http://127.0.0.1:3031/version`), so it's different from https://docs.sensu.io/sensu-go/latest/api/version/!

Author: OK -- so we should not document it in the API section, but we do need to add it in the agent reference somewhere...does that sound right?

Reviewer: Yep!

> - Sensu now reads and writes `initializationKey` to and from EtcdRoot, with legacy support (read-only) as a fallback.

Author: ```suggestion
- In the [web UI][119], annotations that contain URLs are now clickable links.
- Sensu now reads and writes `initializationKey` to and from EtcdRoot, with legacy support (read-only) as a fallback.
```

- Sensu will now check for an HTTP response other than `200 OK` response when fetching assets.
- Updated Go version from 1.13.5 to 1.13.7.

**FIXES:**

- ([Commercial feature][115]) [Label selectors][116] and [field selectors][117] now accept single and double quotes to identify strings.
- Fixed a bug that prevented wrapped resources from having their namespaces set by the default sensuctl configuration.

> 

Reviewer: It's totally possible I missed it but I think we are missing the following changelog entry:

- `Fix event payload validation on the backend events API` - We now better validating the payload with the URL parameters on the `/events/:entity/:check` endpoint, and rejecting events that do not match.

Author: Yep I think it's missing from the changelog. Is my suggestion below correct?

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Improved event payload validation for the [events API][118] so that events that do not match the URL parameters on the `/events/:entity/:check` endpoint are rejected.
```

Reviewer: 💯

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.18.0.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- The `event.entity.entity_class` value now defaults to `proxy` for [`POST /events`][114] requests.
- If you use the [events API][118] to create a new event with an entity that does not already exist, the sensu-backend will automatically create a proxy entity when the event is published.
- Sensuctl now accepts Bonsai asset versions that include a prefix with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).
- The version API now retrieves the Sensu agent version for the Sensu instance.
- In the [web UI][119], annotations that contain URLs are now clickable links.
- Sensu now reads and writes `initializationKey` to and from EtcdRoot, with legacy support (read-only) as a fallback.
- Sensu will now check for an HTTP response other than `200 OK` response when fetching assets.
- Updated Go version from 1.13.5 to 1.13.7.

**FIXES:**

- ([Commercial feature][115]) [Label selectors][116] and [field selectors][117] now accept single and double quotes to identify strings.
- Fixed a bug that prevented wrapped resources from having their namespaces set by the default sensuctl configuration.

> - Improved event payload validation for the [events API][118] so that events that do not match the URL parameters on the `/events/:entity/:check` endpoint are rejected.

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that prevented [API response filtering][120] from working properly for the silenced API.
- Improved event payload validation for the [events API][118] so that events that do not match the URL parameters on the `/events/:entity/:check` endpoint are rejected.
```

**PLACEHOLDER FOR RELEASE SUMMARY**

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.18.0.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- The `event.entity.entity_class` value now defaults to `proxy` for [`POST /events`][114] requests.
- If you use the [events API][118] to create a new event with an entity that does not already exist, the sensu-backend will automatically create a proxy entity when the event is published.
- Sensuctl now accepts Bonsai asset versions that include a prefix with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).
- The version API now retrieves the Sensu agent version for the Sensu instance.
- Log messages now indicate which filter dropped an event.
- Sensu now reads and writes `initializationKey` to and from EtcdRoot, with legacy support (read-only) as a fallback.
- Sensu will now check for an HTTP response other than `200 OK` response when fetching assets.
- Updated Go version from 1.13.5 to 1.13.7.

**FIXES:**

- ([Commercial feature][115]) [Label selectors][116] and [field selectors][117] now accept single and double quotes to identify strings.
- Fixed a bug that prevented wrapped resources from having their namespaces set by the default sensuctl configuration.

> - Fixed a bug that prevented [API response filtering][120] from working properly for the silenced API.

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that prevented [API response filtering][119] from working properly for the silenced API.
```

- Improved event payload validation for the [events API][118] so that events that do not match the URL parameters on the `/events/:entity/:check` endpoint are rejected.
- Sensuctl now supports the `http_proxy`, `https_proxy`, and `no_proxy` environment variables.

> - The [`auth/test` endpoint][121] now returns the correct error messages.

Author: ```suggestion
- The [`auth/test` endpoint][120] now returns the correct error messages.
```

---

## 5.18.0 release notes

**February 25, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.18.0, is now available for download.
**PLACEHOLDER FOR RELEASE SUMMARY**

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.18.0.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- The `event.entity.entity_class` value now defaults to `proxy` for [`POST /events`][114] requests.
- If you use the [events API][118] to create a new event with an entity that does not already exist, the sensu-backend will automatically create a proxy entity when the event is published.
- Sensuctl now accepts Bonsai asset versions that include a prefix with the letter `v` (for example, `v1.2.0`).
- The version API now retrieves the Sensu agent version for the Sensu instance.

> - In the [web UI][119], annotations that contain URLs are now clickable links.

Author: ```suggestion
```

[107]: /sensu-go/5.17/dashboard/overview
[108]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/secrets
[109]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#initialization
[110]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/overview/#field-selector
[111]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/rbac/#cluster-wide-resource-types
[112]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/events/#events-post
[113]: /sensu-go/5.17/sensuctl/reference/#list-commands
[114]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events/#events-post
[115]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[116]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#label-selector

> [117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector

Author: ```suggestion
[117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector
[118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post
```

[107]: /sensu-go/5.17/dashboard/overview
[108]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/secrets
[109]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#initialization
[110]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/overview/#field-selector
[111]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/rbac/#cluster-wide-resource-types
[112]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/events/#events-post
[113]: /sensu-go/5.17/sensuctl/reference/#list-commands
[114]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events/#events-post
[115]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[116]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#label-selector
[117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector

> [118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post

Author: ```suggestion
[118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post
[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/dashboard/overview
```

[107]: /sensu-go/5.17/dashboard/overview
[108]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/secrets
[109]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#initialization
[110]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/overview/#field-selector
[111]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/rbac/#cluster-wide-resource-types
[112]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/events/#events-post
[113]: /sensu-go/5.17/sensuctl/reference/#list-commands
[114]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events/#events-post
[115]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[116]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#label-selector
[117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector
[118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post

> [119]: /sensu-go/5.18/dashboard/overview

Author: ```suggestion
[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/dashboard/overview
[120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering
```

[107]: /sensu-go/5.17/dashboard/overview
[108]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/secrets
[109]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#initialization
[110]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/overview/#field-selector
[111]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/rbac/#cluster-wide-resource-types
[112]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/events/#events-post
[113]: /sensu-go/5.17/sensuctl/reference/#list-commands
[114]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events/#events-post
[115]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[116]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#label-selector
[117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector
[118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post

> [120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering

Author: ```suggestion
[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering
```

> [121]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/auth/#the-authtest-api-endpoint

Author: ```suggestion
[120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/auth/#the-authtest-api-endpoint
```

[107]: /sensu-go/5.17/dashboard/overview
[108]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/secrets
[109]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/backend/#initialization
[110]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/overview/#field-selector
[111]: /sensu-go/5.17/reference/rbac/#cluster-wide-resource-types
[112]: /sensu-go/5.17/api/events/#events-post
[113]: /sensu-go/5.17/sensuctl/reference/#list-commands
[114]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events/#events-post
[115]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[116]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#label-selector
[117]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#field-selector
[118]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/events#events-post

> [119]: /sensu-go/5.18/dashboard/overview

Author: ```suggestion
```
